# Understanding Perception of VR Technology in the Classroom
### How does that amount of time spent using virtual reality and field of study impact the improvement of learning?

This project was a final project submission for MATH 137 (Probability and Statistics I) at Hofstra University, taken during the Fall 2024 semester under Prof. Angel Pineda.

We wanted to determine the impact of virtual reality on the improvement of education while taking special interest in the students’ field of study. The dataset we plan on using for the final project, “Impact of Virtual Reality on Education,” includes both qualitative and quantitative data from students of various educational levels on their perspective and experience of using virtual reality in the classroom. By using the columns “Field_of_Study,” “Hours_of_VR_Usage_Per_Week,” and “Improvement_in_Learning_Outcomes,” we plan on analyzing the correlation between what field the student is studying in and how often they use virtual reality in the classroom with their perception on academic performance.

The researchers take age, gender, grade level, field of study, number of hours spent using virtual reality, engagement level, and subject into account to determine whether or not the students felt that they saw an improvement in their education. The ages range from twelve to thirty years old, accounting for grade levels ranging from high school to postgraduate, making it possible for us to see its usefulness in different environments. The fields of study include medicine, science, business, arts and education.

Virtual reality in the classroom can provide students with hands-on experience through simulations relevant to their field of study. Hofstra’s business school recently introduced a VR technology that allows students to practice public speaking and interpersonal communication, preparing for giving presentations, lecturing a class, or preparing for interviews. Medical schools and facilities offer virtual reality training to understand the human body and practice surgical techniques not on human subjects. Engineering and architecture students can view their designs and analyze their functionality and aesthetics in a virtual environment, not needing to use physical material to test their ideas.

Art students can use virtual reality to create 3D models and draw and paint in 3D. This is helpful for them to see the entirety of their creations and allow them to make the necessary adjustments. It is important to learn and experience other great artists’ works in order to learn how to apply certain techniques and concepts. However, art is usually kept in museums which limits one’s ability to take in and absorb all the nuances that you might be able to take in if you had more time to do so. With virtual reality, students have the opportunity to see this artwork right in front of them, rather than staring at an image in a textbook and possibly increase their capabilities of bringing their art to life. 
